A white supremacist arrested after buying hand grenades 
from an undercover agent said he wanted to send mail bombs to Washington and Montgomery , authorities said .   Chris Scott Gilliam said Chris Scott Gilliam did n't want to be like the Unabomber , who killed three person and wounded several others , a federal agent testified at a federal court hearing .   `` He wanted to kill everybody , '' David Pasqualotto , a special agent with the Bureau of Alcohol , Tobacco and Firearms , said Friday .   There was no immediate indication what agencies or people might have been targeted in the national and state capital cities .   An ATF representative did not immediately return calls for comment Saturday .   Gilliam , 27 , was charged with possessing an unregistered firearm found at his home in Foley along with what agents said was apparently a silencer .   Defense attorney Gary Arm said at the hearing that Gilliam legally owned the firearm and has no criminal record .   A federal magistrate ordered him held pending the results of a psychological evaluation .   If convicted , Gilliam , could face six or seven years in prison , said Assistant U.S. Attorney Greg Bordenkircher .   No charges were immediately filed in connection with the grenade purchase .   Pasqualotto testified that Gilliam met with him Thursday , arriving with a loaded , cocked .45-caliber pistol on his hip and his 20-month-old son in his arms .   `` I knew he was n't quite right , '' Pasqualotto said .   The investigation started three weeks earlier when Gilliam contacted a man about obtaining C4 high explosive , Pasqualotto testified .   He said Gilliam also told the informant someone should kill the FBI sniper who killed the wife of white supremacist Randy weaver during an 11-day standoff in 1992 at Ruby Ridge , Idaho , along with civil rights lawyer Morris Dees of the Montgomery-based Southern Poverty Law Center .   The city council has declared the Ku Klux Klan a terrorist group and condemned other hate groups as well in a resolution approved after an emotional debate .   The resolution was approved on a voice vote Tuesday after council members were assured it would not infringe on anyone 's constitutional rights .   `` The United States has a no-tolerance policy for terrorist organizations , '' said councilman Kwadjo Campbell .   `` This is an unprecedented move , undoubtedly . ''   Mark Potok , a spokesman for the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery , Ala. , said this may be the first municipality to designate the Klan a terrorist group .   The Southern Poverty Law Center represented the predominantly black Macedonia Baptist Church in Clarendon County , which won a $ 21.5 million judgment against the Christian Knights and Klan members after the church was burned four years ago .   The resolution only expresses the opinion of council and does n't create law , city attorneys said .   If the Klan wants to march , they may apply for a permit .   Sponsor Wendell Gilliard had said when he first proposed the resolution that he wanted to prevent the Klan from holding rallies in the city .   It has been several years since the group marched in Charleston .   `` This is not a black thing .   This is a human thing , '' Gilliard said .   `` This is about race relations .   This is about saving lives . ''   The resolution says Charleston welcomes diverse opinions `` but not those views that instigate fear , bias , bigotry and hate . ''   It condemns any organization `` whose purpose is to encourage hate of any individual , race , religion , culture or way of life . ''   Several council members were concerned the resolution could lead to lawsuits and a resumption of Ku Klux Klan .   `` I would prefer letting the Klan die a natural death rather than cutting off their First Amendment rights , '' said Paul Tinkler .   Horace King , leader of the Christian Knights of the Ku Klux Klan in South Carolina , refused to comment .   A lawyer who specializes in bankrupting hate groups is going after the Aryan Nations , whose compound in the Idaho woods has served as a clubhouse for some of America 's most violent racists .   In a lawsuit that goes to trial Monday , attorney Morris Dees of the Southern Poverty Law Center is representing a mother and son who were attacked by security guards for the white supremacist group .   The victims are suing the Aryan Nations and founder Richard Butler. '' Put them out of business , that 's what we try to do , '' Dees said when the lawsuit was filed last year .   He has declined additional comment .   Butler said the lawsuit was brought by enemies of the white race. '' That 's the way it is for the white man today , '' Butler , 82 , said Wednesday. '' I think it 's a rape of the American justice system . ''   The case has its origins on July 1 , 1998 , when Victoria Keenan , 43 , and Morris Dees 's son Jason , 20 , were driving on a country road near Hayden Lake .   Their car backfired as it passed the Aryan Nations ' 20-acre compound .   Security guards for the Aryan Nations mistook the backfire for a gunshot , piled into a truck and chased the Keenans , who are part white , part American Indian , for two miles .   They fired five bullets into the Keenan car and forced it off the road .   Both Keenans were punched and threatened at gunpoint before the guards backed off .   Two of the guards were convicted of assault and are in prison .   A third remains a fugitive .   The Keenans are alleging assault , false imprisonment and emotional distress at the hands of the guards , who they contend were agents of the Aryan Nations .   They are seeking an unspecified amount in compensatory and punitive damages .   Butler and Morris Dees 's attorney Edgar Steele are expected to argue that Morris Dees should not be held liable for the actions of the volunteer security guards .  