Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi offered Thursday to end Aung San Suu Kyi 's road side standoff with the military government if the government agrees to release jailed members of Aung San Suu Kyi 's political party .  Suu Kyi 's health was also `` failing '' according to a statement released Thursday by the National League for Democracy , Aung San Suu Kyi 's political party .  Citing Aung San Suu Kyi 's personal physicians , who have visited Aung San Suu Kyi 's twice in Aung San Suu Kyi 's van outside Yangon , Aung San Suu Kyi 's eyes are turning yellow and Aung San Suu Kyi has low blood pressure , the party statement said .  Aung San Suu Kyi doctors took blood samples , fearing Aung San Suu Kyi may have contracted jaundice or another disease after spending nine days in Aung San Suu Kyi 's car with three colleagues 32 kilometers ( 19 miles ) outside Yangon .  Suu Kyi is engaged in Aung San Suu Kyi 's fourth confrontation in two months with the military government over Aung San Suu Kyi 's right to travel freely within Myanmar , also known as Burma .  Aung San Suu Kyi was stopped outside Yangon last Wednesday by the authorities as Aung San Suu Kyi attempted to drive to the city of Bassein to meet with members of parliament from Aung San Suu Kyi 's party .  The NLD said the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize winner was willing to return to Yangon if the government released jailed members of parliament and other members of Aung San Suu Kyi 's party imprisoned since May .  There are 42 NLD members of parliament in Myanmar 's prisons , according to the All Burma Students Democratic Front , an exile group .  The number of NLD members arrested since May is unclear , as Suu Kyi has said in the past that when people are arrested in far flung provinces the party sometimes does n't hear about it .  There was no immediate response from the military government to Suu Kyi 's demand .  In the past , they have never met Aung San Suu Kyi 's calls to release political prisoners or begin a dialogue .  Suu Kyi 's offer to end Aung San Suu Kyi 's protest comes one day before Aung San Suu Kyi 's party 's deadline for the military to convene parliament .  The military said Thursday it has no intention of meeting the demand .  `` The question is how does one call a parliament if there exists no constitution , '' said a government spokesman , on condition of anonymity .  `` The demand to convene one sounds like forcing a bald person to dye Yangon 's hair . ''  Several ethnic insurgent groups , exiled democracy activists and Western governments have supported the NLD 's call for parliament to be convened .  The NLD won 82 percent of the seats in the assembly in a 1990 election , but the military refused to honor the results .  After the NLD victory , it denied the election was for a parliament , but instead for delegates to a convention to write a new constitution .  The constitution is not complete and the draft being worked on gives the military the leading role in politics and bars Suu Kyi from holding public office .  The military has ruled Myanmar , also known as Burma , since 1962 .  In 1988 , the military gunned down thousands of protesters during a nationwide democracy uprising .  While Myanmar 's military government continued its arrests of the country 's democracy activists , a top general accused Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi of working with terrorists , state-run newspapers reported Thursday .  Gen. Tin Oo , one of the top four generals in the 21-member ruling military council , said Suu Kyi was working `` in collaboration with underground terrorists and some super power countries , '' the New Light of Myanmar reported .  Their goal , Suu Kyi said , was to cause instability and the disintegration of the nation .  Tin Oo is army chief of staff and a leader of what is considered the hard-line faction in the State Peace and Development Council , the official name of the junta .  Suu Kyi and her party follow a doctrine of political change through nonviolence .  She has cited U.S. civil rights leader Martin Luther King and Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi as her influences .  The military has arrested more than 500 members of Suu Kyi 's political party , the National League for Democracy , since May , party leaders said Wednesday .  More than 300 of the arrests have taken place since Sunday .  The military began rounding up NLD members this week to prevent the party from convening the parliament elected in 1990 .  The NLD said 129 members of parliament were arrested in the latest sweep .  A total of 187 have been arrested since May .  In addition , the All Burma Students Democratic Front , an exiles group , said the junta had arrested more than 300 students since June for campaigning for democracy .  `` The ABSDF estimates that more than 900 political arrests have taken place since May , including MPs from all opposition parties , opposition party officials , students , Buddhist monks and other political activists , '' the group said .  The military has ruled Myanmar , also known as Burma , since 1962 .  The United States , Britain , France , Germany , Japan and other nations , along with human rights group such as Amnesty International , have condemned the arrests and called on the military to begin a dialogue with the NLD .  On Thursday , the Burma Lawyers Council , composed of exiles , called on the country 's lawyers to endorse the convening of parliament .  The NLD won 82 percent of the seats in the parliament , but despite promising to hand over power to the winners before the poll took place , the military refused to honor the result .  The party set Aug. 21 as a deadline for the military to call the assembly into session .  When the generals refused , the NLD said it would convene parliament , known as the People's Assembly , on its own .  The military warned the NLD that such a move would be illegal and could result in the party being outlawed .  It claims it has arrested no one , but merely `` invited '' NLD members to military guest houses for an `` exchange of views . ''  Suu Kyi , whose movements are severely restricted by the government , has not been seen in pubic since the crackdown began .  The British embassy in Yangon denied allegations in Myanmar 's state-run press that opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi is a British citizen , while military-run newspapers on Friday renewed threats to deport the Nobel laureate .  Since Sunday , the military has arrested more than 300 of members of Suu Kyi 's political party , the National League for Democracy , to prevent it from convening the parliament elected in 1990 .  The NLD won 82 percent of the seats in that assembly .  Nearly 200 elected lawmakers are among those who have been arrested .  Despite promising before the polls to hand over power to the winners , the military refused to honor the result after its rule was overwhelmingly rejected by Myanmar citizens .  Leading generals have also recently stepped up their verbal attacks against the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize winner , who is married to a British academic , calling Yangon 's a traitor for Yangon 's attempts to bring democracy to the country .  Myanmar , also known as Burma , has been ruled by the military since 1962 .  Earlier in the week , a commentary in the state-run New Light of Myanmar signed `` Supreme Court Justice '' said that Suu Kyi is a British citizen and so the government should deport Yangon 's .  Suu Kyi is the daughter of Myanmar 's late independence hero , Gen. Aung San .  A 1982 law makes dual citizenship in Myanmar illegal .  On Friday , commentaries in the military-controlled press urged Suu Kyi to go back to Britain before the government takes legal action and deports Yangon 's .  `` In response to recent media speculation , the British government would like to make clear that Aung San Suu Kyi is not , and never has been , a British citizen , '' a statement from the embassy said on Friday .  Earlier this week , the U.S. government issued a statement condemning the threat to deport Suu Kyi and the arrest of Yangon 's party members .  The governments of Britain , France , West Germany and Japan have also condemned the arrests , as have human rights groups Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch Asia .  On Friday , groups representing three of Myanmar 's ethnic groups added their condemnations for the arrests and their support for the convening of parliament .  The Wa National Organization , the Palaung State Liberation Front and the Lahu Democratic Front said the arrest were an `` insulting act of shameless , barbaric arrogance against the people of Burma . ''  The NLD has said that representatives of the Chin , Rakhine and Mon ethnic groups were among those arrested in the latest crackdown , while the All Burma Students Democratic Front said more than 900 democracy activists have been arrested since May .  Discontent with the regime is widespread because of its handling of the economy .  Military bungling has turned resource-rich Myanmar into one of the world 's poorest nations .  Defense spending accounts for more than half the government budget , while inflation is running at more than 60 percent , rice is in short supply , foreign investment has dried up and power blackouts are a daily occurrence in Yangon .  Exiled dissidents from Myanmar urged Thai Prime Minister Chuan Leekpai on Friday to reschedule a trip to Myanmar by Chuan Leekpai 's top general because it will coincide with the anniversary of the military government 's takeover .  Army Commander in Chief Gen. Chetta Thanajaro is scheduled to visit Myanmar , also known as Burma , from Sept. 15-18 .  It will be Chuan Leekpai 's final trip to Thailand 's western neighbor as Chuan Leekpai is scheduled to retire this year .  Myanmar , also known as Burma , has been ruled by the military in various guises since 1962 .  The current military government came to power on Sept. 18 , 1988 after brutally crushing a nationwide democracy movement .  The All Burma Students Democratic Front asked Chuan in a letter on Friday to urge the army chief to reschedule Chuan Leekpai 's trip .  `` Thailand is a democratic country and the military government in Burma killed many people in 1988 .  Recently they have arrested nearly a thousand members of opposition parties , '' said Aung Naing Oo , chairman of the ABSDF .  Chuan Leekpai said Chetta Thanajaro 's trip would create a negative image for the Thai government and the Myanmar military would use the visit for propaganda .  Myanmar 's military government has detained another 187 members of pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi 's party , bringing the total to 702 arrested since a crackdown began in May , the party said Friday .  If the figure is accurate , it would be the largest number of arrests of opposition members since the nationwide democracy uprising in 1988 .  More than half the arrests have taken place since Sunday , in an apparent government effort to stymie the National League for Democracy 's announced plans to convene parliament .  The NLD said 194 members of parliament are among the arrested party members .  The military rulers never allowed parliament to meet after the NLD won a landslide victory in elections held in 1990 .  The government avoids saying it has detained any NLD members .  It claims instead they were `` invited '' to government guest houses for an exchange of views on convening parliament .  On Thursday night it released four photographs purporting to show `` Invited guests enjoying watching TV '' and other activities .  Most of those photographed looked stiff and unsmiling .  The NLD statement , while announcing the new detentions , also said that nine members of the NLD 's organizing committee in the capital had been released on Wednesday after being briefly detained .  On Friday , groups representing three of Myanmar 's ethnic groups condemned the arrests and voiced their support for the convening of parliament .  The Wa National Organization , the Palaung State Liberation Front and the Lahu Democratic Front said the arrests were an `` insulting act of shameless , barbaric arrogance against the people of Burma . ''  Myanmar is also known as Burma .  The NLD has said that representatives of the Chin , Rakhine and Mon ethnic groups were among those arrested in the latest crackdown , while the All Burma Students Democratic Front said more than 900 democracy activists have been arrested since May .  The British embassy in Yangon meanwhile denied allegations in Myanmar 's state-run press that NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi is a British citizen , while military-run newspapers on Friday renewed threats to deport the Nobel laureate .  Leading generals have also recently stepped up their verbal attacks against 1991 Nobel Peace Prize winner Suu Kyi , who is married to a British academic , calling Suu Kyi 's a traitor for Suu Kyi 's attempts to bring democracy to the country .  Myanmar has been ruled by the military since 1962 .  Earlier in the week , a commentary in the state-run New Light of Myanmar signed `` Supreme Court Justice '' said that Suu Kyi is a British citizen and so the government should deport Suu Kyi 's .  A 1982 law makes dual citizenship in Myanmar illegal .  The vice chairman of Myanmar opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi 's political party was threatened with arrest in a commentary in a government-run newspaper Sunday .  The commentary in Sunday 's New Light of Myanmar newspaper said that Tin Oo , vice chairman of the National League for Democracy , had violated the terms of Tin Oo 's 1995 parole from prison and would have to serve out the remainder of Tin Oo 's sentence if Tin Oo continued to violate Myanmar laws .  The NLD said earlier this week that the military has arrested 702 of its members since May , including 194 elected members of parliament .  More than half the arrests took place this week as the government sought to prevent the NLD from convening parliament .  The NLD won 82 percent of the seats in parliament in a 1990 election the military refused to honor .  Also on Sunday , a student exiles group claimed that 15 military officers , including army colonels , had been arrested by the ruling junta for planning to meet and talk with Suu Kyi .  The report from the All Burma Students Democratic Front could not be independently confirmed and the military government spokesman was not available for comment .  NLD Vice Chairman Tin Oo , 71 , who has been imprisoned twice by Myanmar 's military leaders , is a former defense minister , army commander in chief , Buddhist monk and lawyer .  Tin Oo was placed under house arrest the same day as Suu Kyi in 1989 and later sentenced to three years in Insein Prison for violating the 1950 Emergency Provision Act , a sweeping law that allows the military to jail people for as little as allegedly thinking anti-government thoughts .  In 1992 , the military extended Tin Oo 's sentence by another seven years .  Tin Oo was released on March 15 , 1995 after Tin Oo appealed to Gen. Than Shwe , the junta leader , according to the commentary in the New Light of Myanmar .  Myanmar is also known as Burma .  `` While serving the prison terms , Tin Oo submitted an appeal to Senior General Than Shwe asking for pardon and promising Tin Oo will not take part in any political activities or in any activity that would hamper the government 's development works , '' the commentary said .  `` On humanitarian grounds and due to Tin Oo 's previous service in the army , the remaining prison sentence was suspended .  Tin Oo signed an undertaking saying Tin Oo would not violate the law , '' it said .  `` Tin Oo may have to serve the remaining prison sentence if Tin Oo does not live up to Tin Oo 's promises . ''  The commentary also accused Tin Oo of trying to sow discord in the army .  In 1974 , Tin Oo ran afoul of former dictator Ne Win when Tin Oo refused to order Tin Oo 's troops to open fire on unarmed student demonstrators .  Ne Win accused him of plotting a coup and had him imprisoned in 1976 .  Tin Oo was amnestied in 1980 .  Tin Oo retains a reputation as having been a heroic commander who was well-liked by Tin Oo 's troops , but Tin Oo inspires a deep animosity from officers in the military government for opposing military rule .  Tin Oo fought alongside Suu Kyi 's father , independence hero Aung San , during the campaign to end British colonial rule in the 1940s and was among the first group of officers commissioned in the Burma army .  On the tenth anniversary of the military takeover in Myanmar , about 60 exiled dissidents protested in front of their country 's embassy in Bangkok on Friday calling for the release of political prisoners and arrested students .  `` We are calling on the military dictators to release all political prisoners , which include elected members of parliament , students , many of whom were recently arrested , '' said Angelay , the spokesman for the All Burma Students Democratic Front .  Myanmar , also known as Burma , has been ruled by the military in various guises since 1962 .  The current military government came to power on Sept. 18 , 1988 after brutally crushing a nationwide democracy movement .  `` Today is the tenth anniversary of the military takeover .  People in Burma have been suffering for 10 years , '' said Angelay .  The protesters were joined by ten Thai university students and one Canadian activist .  `` I 'm not aware of any law that prohibits me from taking part in the demonstration .  But I have been warned by the Burmese students that I face possible arrest and deportation , '' said Paul Beaulie , a resident of Quebec .  Nearly 50 Burmese men , women and children demonstrated in the capital on Friday against military rule in their country .  The protesters , who have fled to neighboring Bangladesh over the years , waved placards that read `` We want restoration of democracy in Burma . ''  The demonstration was staged to mark the 10th anniversary of the seizure of power by military generals in Maynmar , formerly Burma .  `` We want the military to hand over power to our National League for Democracy which won the elections in 1990 , '' Ani Maung , a protest leader said .  In Dhaka the refugees are looked after by the United Nations .  A World Trade Organization panel is to rule in a dispute between the United States , Europe and Japan over U.S. legislation that bans trade with the military government of Burma .  A dispute settlement panel was set up by the WTO Wednesday at the request of the Europeans and Japanese , who claim the law deprives them of potential trade benefits .  The legislation , passed in 1996 by the U.S. state of Massachusetts , forbids state agencies from contracting with companies or individuals doing business with the military government of Burma , also known as Myanmar .  An estimated 30 local governments across the United States have passed similar laws .  The legislation is designed to show opposition to Burma 's military regime which has been accused of drug trafficking and widespread human rights violations and to encourage it to negotiate a peaceful transition to representative governments .  In a statement to a meeting in Geneva , European Union representatives said the law imposes conditions for suppliers ' participation in tendering procedures that violate WTO rules .  In a separate but similar request for a panel to be established , Japanese representatives cited several aspects of the legislation it considers to be inconsistent with WTO regulations .  The United States said in a statement it is disappointed with the decision by the European Union and Japan .  `` If this dispute goes to a panel , the U.S. will defend the measure , '' the statement said .  ( pw )  Myanmar has barred British ministers and officials from the country following British pressure on the military regime to hold talks with opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi .  The Foreign Office announced Tuesday that the military regime in Rangoon said no minister or officials will receive a visa to enter the country , also known as Burma .  Last month , Foreign Office minister Derek Fatchett called for a European Union mission , including Britain , to visit Myanmar in an attempt to improve human rights in the country , which has been under military rule since 1962 .  Britain also discourages companies from putting new investment into Myanmar .  `` I regret this move by the Burmese regime , '' Derek Fatchett said Tuesday .  `` It will in no way dissuade us from continuing to work for an improvement in the human rights and the political situation in Burma and bringing pressure on the regime to enter into dialogue with democratic leaders . ''  Suu Kyi , winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize , has been locked in a battle of wills with the ruling council of generals over demands that a parliament elected in 1990 be convened .  Her National League for Democracy won the elections , but the military never allowed Parliament to meet .  The EU has already placed sanctions on the Myanmar regime including an arms embargo , putting restrictions on visas and suspending non-humanitarian aid .  `` The visa ban is an acknowledgment that the U.K. is at the forefront of international action to bring pressure on the Burmese regime to improve the human rights and political situation in Burma , '' a Foreign Office spokesman said anonymously , in keeping with British practice .  ( acw-er )  The United States and European countries were rebuked Tuesday for passing up an international heroin conference because it was in Myanmar , one of the world 's biggest producers of the drug .  Participants at the 4th International Heroin Conference said the boycott by the world 's biggest heroin consuming nations ran counter to the spirit of international cooperation against drug trafficking .  `` As two of the largest markets for heroin in the world , the United States and Britain bear a special responsibility to work with the rest of the international community in every way possible , '' Home Affairs Minister Col. Tin Hlaing said in Col 's opening address .  The four-day conference was organized by Interpol , the Lyon , France-based agency that bolsters links among national police forces .  Other countries boycotting the conference include France , Denmark , the Netherlands and Norway .  Representatives of 26 other countries , including Australia and Switzerland , were listed as attending .  Washington and other critics say the military regime in Myanmar , also known as Burma , has failed to seriously crack down on drugs and has such a poor human rights record that it does not deserve the legitimacy conferred by the conference .  `` The United States believes that the Burmese regime could use the conference to create the false impression of international approval , both by Interpol and by participating countries , for its counternarcotics and anti-crime performance , '' U.S. State Department spokesman James Foley said Tuesday in Washington .  `` Burma 's counternarcotics efforts , while improving , are far from what is necessary .  And Burma , of course , persists in its disregard for political and human rights . ''  The New York-based Human Rights Watch likened holding the meeting in Yangon to `` holding a convention on weapons of mass destruction in Baghdad , on women 's rights in Kabul or on terrorism in Tripoli . '' with almost no outside aid .  Most foreign aid to the country was cut off a decade ago following the bloody suppression of protests against military rule .  Forced labor , including child labor , are widespread in Myanmar , and the government ignores workers ' rights , the U.S. Labor Department said in a report Monday .  The report , required by Congress , updates a 1998 review of labor conditions in Myanmar , also known as Burma , which reached similar conclusions .  Based on findings of the U.S. Embassy in Rangoon , the report says forced labor is used to construct roads , dikes , canals and projects to support tourism , military operations and commercial ventures of the military. '' The latest report on labor practices in Burma reinforces our position that the international community must continue to push for a democratic transition in that country , '' Labor Secretary Alexis Herman said in a statement accompanying the report .  Myanmar 's pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi was awarded the Freedom of the City honor Saturday night in recognition of her activism in her Southeast Asian country .  Suu Kyi won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 for Myanmar 's peaceful struggle for democracy against the military regime in Myanmar , also known as Burma .  The military regime overturned Myanmar 's party 's resounding victory in general elections the previous year , and refused to recognize the vote as legitimate .  Hundreds of members of her National League for Democracy have since been jailed .  Suu Kyi herself was under house arrest for six years before being released in 1995 .  Aung San Suu Kyi movements and political activities remain heavily restricted .  She did not attend the Dublin ceremony , but her son Kim Aris flew to Ireland to collect the award in Aung San Suu Kyi 's place. '' Aung San Suu Kyi was chosen for this award because of Myanmar 's long courageous stand in support of democracy in Burma , '' said Dublin 's Lord Mayor Mary Freehill. '' We will leave the roll of honor unsigned like we did for ( South African President ) Nelson Mandela , until Myanmar is free to travel to Dublin herself to sign it . ''  The members of Myanmar pop band U2 were also given the award. '' We regard this as a very big deal for us , and we are very humbled by it .  It 's humbling and it 's fantastic , '' lead singer Bono said .  Freehill , a longtime admirer of the band , said : '' In a lot of ways they put Dublin on the map when the city was not as popular as it is now . ''  Other figures who have received the Freedom of the City honor include U.S. presidents John F. Kennedy and Bill Clinton , Pope John Nelson Mandela and Mother Teresa .  In the decade since they seized power and renamed the country Myanmar , Burma 's military rulers have become increasingly dependent on the use of forced labor and torture to maintain that power , build the country 's infrastructure , and carry out its war against stubborn resistance by ethnic minorities .  Now , evidence is increasing that the Burmese army is using another tool of war against minority populations : rape .  The use of rape as a weapon in ethnic conflict is not uncommon ; it 's been documented in Bosnia , Rwanda , and , most recently , Indonesia .  But such occurrences in Burma on a vast scale have received little attention , in part because the rapes have been perpetrated in inaccessible areas .  The US State Department reported this year that Burmese troops `` continued to impress women for military porterage duties , and there were many reports of rape of ethnic minority women by soldiers . ''  According to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Myanmar ( Burma ) , government troops have been abducting `` increasing numbers of women , including young girls and the elderly '' and subjecting them to rape and other abuses .  The Burmese Women's Union alleges that `` women have been raped in an organized and systematic way '' by the army .  Unocal Corp. , for abuses allegedly committed during construction of a natural gas pipeline in Burma , charging that `` girls and women have been raped in the presence of family members . ''  The court , which ruled last year that Unocal and Total could be held liable for rapes committed by their military partner , will hear the case next year ; the junta was dropped as a defendent because the court said it had no jurisdiction over a foreign government .  The UN Commission on Human Rights says women most likely to be raped are refugees , internally displaced women , and women belonging to ethnic minorities or the political opposition .  Rapes by the military typically occur during raids on villages ; when women are abducted for forced labor ; during encounters with victims of forced relocations in the jungle ; and in coerced marriages .  Rape is systematically being used by Burma 's military as part of a policy of ethnic cleansing , according to interviews with human rights workers and exiled pro-democracy officials .  Bolstering those contentions is a new report by EarthRights International , a legal rights group based in Washington and Thailand , that accuses Burma 's military of `` the savage domination of women outside the scope of acceptable wartime conduct . ''  The report also says that `` the violent sexual abuse of ethnic Burmese women at the hands of the military occurs in epidemic proportions . ''  Activists are urging the UN Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women to investigate the claims of systematic rape .  Thaung Tun , deputy chief of mission at the Burmese embassy in Washington , denies there is anything to investigate .  `` It is hardly possible for rape to occur in Myanmar on a policy basis .  Maybe on an individual basis .  But if it happens , there are laws in place , and people would be punished . ''  Many of Burma 's soldiers are teenagers , often abducted by the army .  According to EarthRights , they are given little food , forbidden contact with their families , and forced to beat each other for punishment .  Abused physically and humiliated every day , the young recruits are then set loose among the ethnic minorities they have been indoctrinated to believe are `` the people 's enemy '' and `` internal destructionists . ''  Many ethnic leaders and pro-democracy activists claim that the violence against women is directly related to the military 's goal of wiping out all ethnic resistance , even if it means genocide against a particular minority. appears to lend credence to the claims that rape is a conscious tool of war in Burma .  Marked `` top secret '' and dated only a few weeks after the military takeover in 1988 , the document is addressed to `` All Great Ruling Burmans '' and outlines a policy of `` blood mixing '' and `` a reference to the process by which Burmans , who now represent two-thirds of Burma 's population , could become more dominant .  The document says `` the easiest way to implement these ideas is to occupy ( marry or impregnate ) women who are not Burman , '' for which it offers a financial reward .  `` We must deviously attack those who are not Burman in economic as well as social ways , '' the document states .  In Burma , children are considered to bear the ethnicity of the father only. believes the document originated in the defense ministry 's department of psychological warfare .  `` Regardless of the source or intent of this document , it accurately represents an ethnic cleansing policy of the Burmese military , '' he says .  `` There is no doubt that the widespread rapes by troops are fueled by the policies expressed in this document . ''  U Bo Hla Tint , a minister of the government in exile , says Burmese was present in Burma when officials in Karen state heard the text of the document during routine monitoring of radio communications between two Burmese military commanders .  Ka Hsaw Wa , a veteran Karen human rights investigator who organizes fact-finding missions for Human Rights Watch , says Burmese encountered the `` Burmanization '' document in the Shan , Karen , and Karenni areas , where Burmese 's sources retrieved it from Burman soldiers and outposts. geographical , military , anecdotal evidence continues to mount .  In April , Amnesty International reported that a 30-year-old mother , Nang Ing , was raped by three soldiers who accused her of giving rice to the insurgents .  After the assault , they poured boiling water over her .  She died three days later .  In another village , a woman named Naing Mai was raped over five days by military personnel .  She was then burned to death , according to the account that local farmers , who watched from hiding places , later gave Amnesty International .  According to a report last month from the Shan Human Rights Foundation , Aye Nang , another young mother of three , was raped by troops on March 5 in the village of Wan Pek .  She was then stabbed four times in the chest and buried in a shallow grave , uncovered by villagers three days later .  Jennifer Green , staff lawyer with the New York-based Center for Constitutional Rights , is convinced that the Burmese military is guilty of crimes against humanity as defined by the UN war-crimes tribunal in The Hague .  The tribunal , set up for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda , has declared rape a war crime .  `` The facts presented in ( the EarthRights report ) indicate that these acts of violence against women are both widespread and systematic , that there is a pattern of rape , and that civilians are targeted for political reasons or because they are part of a certain ethnic group , '' says Green , who is a cocounsel in the lawsuit against Unocal and Total .  `` There is a growing acceptance that rape is not just a form of humiliating treatment but is an extreme form of violence and should be regarded as torture . ''  Dennis Bernstein , associate editor at Pacific News Service , is the producer of `` Flashpoints '' on KPFA radio in the San Francisco Bay Area .  Leslie Kean is coauthor of `` Burma 's Revolution of the Spirit '' and director of the Burma Project USA in San Rafael , Calif.  ( To publish this `` separate buy '' article , it must be purchased _ the rate is not prohibitive _ from one of these New York Times Syndicate sales representatives :  ( -- U.S. , Canada and the Pacific : CONNIE WHITE in Kansas City at 1-800-444-0267 or 816-822-8448 , or fax her at 816-822-1444 .  ( -- Europe and Asia : KARL HORWITZ in Paris at 47-42-17-11 ; fax , 47-42-80-44 or 47-42-18-81 ; telex , 282-942 .  ( -- Latin America : OLIVIA VASQUEZ in Los Angeles , 310-996-0075 ; fax , 310-996-0089 .  By LESLIE KEAN and DENNIS BERNSTEIN c.1998 The Progressive  The 10th anniversary of a crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators passed quietly Saturday in Myanmar without the violence many had feared , but also without any sign of a resolution of the country 's deepening problems .  Foreign diplomats and a government official said there were no demonstrations , after warnings from the government and a reported call for calm by the opposition party , the National League for Democracy .  `` I drove past some key points this morning , including the university and the NLD office and I did n't see any additional riot police or troops or any additional security measures anywhere , '' said a diplomat in the Burmese capital of Yangon , once known as Rangoon .  A statement faxed to The Associated Press said : `` There are no demonstrations in Yangon or anywhere else in the country .  Though the anniversary passed quietly , there could be stepped-up activity in the coming two weeks by the opposition , led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi .  She has set Aug. 21 as the deadline for convening the National Assembly , which was elected eight years ago in a vote that was annulled by the military after her party won 80 percent of its seats .  Since then the military rulers have systematically harassed and imprisoned the elected opposition members and their supporters , and have choked off any attempts at public protest .  Fearing student unrest , authorities have closed the country 's universities for almost eight of the past 10 years .  Kent Wiedemann , the top American diplomat in Myanmar , said the opposition was `` clearly taking the initiative at this moment '' in an effort to force some liberalization .  `` There 's a principle involved : yes , they want to have the election finally recognized , '' Wiedemann said of the Aug. 21 deadline .  But practically speaking , Kent Wiedemann said , the immediate goal of the opposition is to bring the country 's leaders into talks .  The military leaders have said repeatedly that they are only caretakers and that they want to make a transition to democracy .  But their refusal to honor the results of the 1990 election has raised questions about their intentions .  And they have shown no sign of softening .  `` As you can see , looking at the events of the last week , the government , rather than heeding the call for dialogue , is instead adopting a more confrontational attitude , '' Wiedemann said .  He referred to stepped-up harassment of the opposition party 's elected members of Parliament , the stifling of public protest and the forced return of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi to Yangon 's home on Wednesday after Yangon was halted attempting to visit party members outside Yangon , and in a standoff spent six days in Yangon 's car .  ( Distributed by New York Times Special Features ) dissuading regional rivals from provocative acts , promoting economic reform , blocking destabilizing transfers of arms and technologies , urging the release of political prisoners and advocating the development of democratic practices and institutions .  We do this to prevent conflicts , build prosperity and strengthen the forces of freedom .  But to succeed , we must convince foreign leaders that the common good is good for them as well and that our own agenda is aboveboard .  Obviously , we do not use the same approach with an established modern power that we use with a government whose authority is weak and institutions wobbly .  We consider the domestic pressures that may be affecting a government along with the proclivities and capacities of its leaders .  And in any relationship , we refer constantly back to our basic principles and goals .  For example , there has been much debate about whether we are more likely to influence the actions of ornery foreign governments by using the carrot of engagement or the stick of sanctions .  The answer , of course , is that it depends .  Neither China nor Burma is democratic , and both take a dim view of dissent .  Yet we are engaged in a strategic dialogue with China while maintaining far tougher sanctions , including an investment ban , against Burma .  Some accuse us of having a double standard .  In reality , we have a single standard based on our assessment of the approach most likely to achieve results that serve U.S. interests and ideals .  In Burma 's case , a repressive military regime has rebuffed repeated appeals for talks with the democratic opposition led by Nobel Peace Prize-winner Aung San Suu Kyi .  Under the junta , Burma has become , with official connivance , the world 's leading source of heroin and , with official neglect , the epicenter of a regional AIDS crisis .  Many of its increasingly desperate people are fleeing to neighboring countries .  The democrats , who overwhelmingly won Burma 's last free elections , have called for a halt to foreign investment and many categories of aid .  Political change is essential if Burma is to transform itself into a source of stability in Southeast Asia .  Sanctions may well work .  Having driven the economy into the ground , we may eventually persuade Burmese leaders to rethink where their own best interests lie .  America 's stake in China is far deeper and broader than in Burma .  Asian security , nonproliferation and economic health can not be won without Chinese cooperation .  Our task is to encourage China to become a full and fully constructive participant in the international system .  Our approach is to engage in a dialogue with Chinese leaders while encouraging the broad exchange of information and ideas between American and Chinese citizens .  Unlike Burma , China is changing rapidly .  The government is committed to economic reform .  On proliferation , China has progressed from advocating the spread of nuclear weapons to signing the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty , the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and the Chemical Weapons Convention while agreeing to tighten controls on sensitive exports .  In the political sphere , China has placed a new emphasis on the rule of law , permitted somewhat more open public discussion of political reform , released several prominent dissidents and ratified one international human-rights convention while promising to sign another this fall .  In contrast to Burma , many Chinese reformers welcome Western political and commercial engagement with their government as a spur to further openness and change .  Moreover , the Dalai Lama , among others , has praised the U.S.-China dialogue as an appropriate way to express American support for preserving the cultural , linguistic and ethnic heritage of Tibet .  Critics are right to say that this progress is not good enough .  That is why President Clinton spent much of Clinton 's time during the Beijing summit working on the hard issues : urging China to do better on nonproliferation and political prisoners , pushing for more open markets , stressing that our improved relations can not come at Taiwan 's expense and making the case for democracy directly and compellingly to the Chinese people .  It would be presumptuous to suggest that our engagement alone will cause democracy in China to blossom .  China 's future will be determined by the Chinese .  But our engagement can contribute to an environment in which the Chinese people have more access to information , more contact with the democratic world and less resistance from their government to outside influences and ideas .  It is too early to draw definitive conclusions about the success of our policy toward China or Burma .  In both cases , we hope for progress ; in neither do we expect miracles .  Toward these countries and others where we hope for change , we must be patient and persistent .  And we must design our policies not with a cookie cutter but with the special characteristics of each in mind .  All this argues for flexibility .  There has long been tension between the executive branch and Congress over mandated sanctions , prohibitions , restrictions , earmarks and other restraints on foreign policy .  Having worked in both branches , I know that this tension is inevitable and , at times , constructive .  When I meet with foreign officials , referring to pressure from Congress can help to spur action .  What is not helpful is the growing tendency to view entire relationships through the prism of a single issue or to enact laws that deprive the executive of the leverage needed to bargain effectively .  The true challenge of diplomacy does not reside in the beauty of our goals .  Foreign policy is practical , not aesthetic .  It requires persuading others to agree to new policies and actions based on new understandings .  That may entail simple logic , economic incentives , technical assistance , new commitments , information-sharing , coercion , the threat of coercion , and it may require a different mix of those elements tomorrow than it does today .  To do his job well , the president must be able to pick and choose .  You would not ask a carpenter to build a house with only a hammer .  We should not expect our chief executive to construct a successful foreign policy without a full box of tools .  ( Madeleine K. Albright is the 64th U.S. secretary of state . )  NEXT : Clinton : Five Major Tests of American Leadership ----------------  To do business overseas , especially in cudgel-wielding dictatorships , the savvy executive adopts a three-point strategy :  1 ) See No Evil , 2 ) Hear No Evil , 3 ) Speak No Evil .  In the spirit of this philosophy , I present today in my capacity as chairman of the billion-dollar multinational Make a Buck at Any Cost Corp. my special report on American Business Sentiment Toward Burma .  Let 's begin with the government 's own view of life in this Southeast Asian paradise of more than 47 million people .  In the words of the ruling junta , Burma is one of the most pleasant places created by Mother Nature .  I could n't agree more .  Of course , anti-business fanatics delight in squawking about the occasional tiffs between the people of Burma and their military rulers .  Yes , Rangoon cracked down on protests in 1988 , killing thousands to restore order .  Yes , the government ignored results of an election in 1990 clearly indicating that 90 percent of the people rejected its rule and wanted democracy .  And , yes , it placed the elected victor , Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi , under house arrest .  Yes , many of Suu Kyi 's party members have been killed , jailed , or forced into exile .  Yes , the rulers practice torture , turn a blind eye to slavery , and traffick in drugs .  Is this any concern of ours ?  As long as imprisonments , torture , slavery , and political repression do n't hinder business , let 's not get in a huff about it .  These spats will work themselves out .  I will say just one thing to those who whine about human rights : We will battle all attempts to impose on us a social conscience .  Are we in business to save the world or make a profit ?  Lately , I 'm pleased to report , we 've seen some progress in silencing the wild-eyed whiners .  Right here in Massashusetts , we finally crushed a radical law late last year that bans state contracts with companies doing business with Burma .  We applaud the clever logic of the National Foreign Trade Council , which took the battle into the courts on behalf of its 580 corporate members .  The judge , in his wisdom , agreed with the council that the state law was unconstitutional .  Of course !  What right does Massachusetts , or any state , have to make its own foreign policy ?  But no sooner did we lop off the head of this human rights demon than another beast sprung up in its place .  A month after the Massachusetts law was struck down , the Los Angeles city council voted unanimously to enact a similar ban on the municipal level .  If only these were the few isolated attacks on us .  But more than two dozen other states and cities are discussing or have already passed laws that target trade with not only Burma but other promising markets like Nigeria , Indonesia , and Cuba .  Already some companies have retreated from Burma on moral grounds .  It breaks my heart. not from any moral squeamishness .  it was , as it should be , purely a commercial move .  ( Steven Levingston is director of the Business and Economics Journalism Program at Boston University .  Steven Levingston can be reached at leving ( at ) bu.edu )  The Thai government has yet to ask the United States to accept 1,500 new Burmese student refugees , but a State Department official said Thursday that the United States `` would be willing to consider taking more refugees if there is a need . ''  The United States has agreed to resettle 600 of these student refugees from Thailand this year , twice the number who were resettled here last year .  The students fled Burma after the military coup in 1988 and have been refugees in Thailand for more than a decade .  The official said the refugees had no connection to the Burmese guerrilla group that stormed a Thai hospital this week .  When Secretary of State Madeleine Albright arrives in Thailand for this week 's ministerial meeting of ASEAN , the military dictatorship ruining Burma .  It is becoming harder and harder for ASEAN members to ignore the depredations of the Burmese junta .  No country in ASEAN suffers more directly from the junta 's crimes than host Thailand .  For much of the past decade , the Thais have been democratizing a polity long dominated by corrupt military officers .  At the recent AIDS conference in Durban , South Africa , the US ambassador to the United Nations , Richard Holbrooke , rightly praised the Thai government for its success in implementing policies to reduce the spread of HIV .  But the uniformed thugs who rule Burma are undermining those hard-won triumphs .  Whereas Bangkok has achieved exemplary progress in substituting legal cash crops for the poppies used to make heroin , Burma under the junta continues to be a principal source for the heroin that destroys lives from Bangkok to Boston .  And where there is heroin addiction there is an inevitable increase in the rate of HIV infections and cases of AIDS .  Recently , a new evil has come cascading into Thailand from Burma : millions of easily smuggled tablets of the stimulant methamphetamine .  Although noninterference in the internal affairs of member states is a founding principle of ASEAN , the cross-border flow of narcotics , HIV , and refugees into Thailand demonstrates the folly of pretending that Burma 's ASEAN neighbors are not affected by the junta 's misrule .  `` Lack of good governance is at the root of our country 's troubles , '' the leader of Burma 's democracy movement , Aung San Suu Kyi , wrote in a Washington Post op-ed article .  ASEAN members ought to heed Aung San Suu Kyi 's temperate yet resolute counsel .  They should pressure Burma 's military junta to enter a political dialogue with Suu Kyi , Burma 's ethnic nationalities , and the National League for Democracy , the party elected overwhelmingly in 1990 but immediately denied its right to govern by the military .  At least 20 more members of various anti-government armed groups in Myanmar surrendered to the government last month , the Mirror newspaper reported Thursday .  These members , who " exchanged arms for peace " in the southern , eastern and south-eastern areas in December 1997 , belonged to the Kayin National Union ( KNU ) , All Burma Students' Democratic Front and some other ethnic armed groups .  They brought in some arms and ammunition , the report said .  According to a latest official disclosure , a total of 15 anti-government ethnic armed groups have made peace with the government , leaving only one , the KNU , still in insurgency .  A high-ranking Myanmar military official said Sunday that the authorities made timely arrest of 40 persons in January , who allegedly attempted to commit terrorist acts in the country .  In a press briefing here Sunday , Colonel Kyaw Thein , head of the Office of Strategic Studies of the Myanmar Defense Ministry , said the terrorist group , led by Ko Thein of the All Burma Students' Democratic Front ( ABSDF ) , plotted to launch bomb attacks against some civilian targets .  The ABSDF is an anti-government student organization operating on the Myanmar-Thai border sine November 1988 .  A total of 26 members of various anti-government armed groups surrendered to the Myanmar government in March , official newspaper The New Light of Myanmar reported Saturday .  These armed group members included those from the ethnic Lahu , All Burma Students' Democratic Front ( ABSDF ) and the remnants of the former drug trafficking Mong Tai Army ( MTA ) .  They laid down their arms in different military command areas including the Triangle Region and the Coastal Region .  In armed opposition to the Myanmar government , the Lahu , the ABSDF and the MTA reportedly operate in the Myanmar-Thai border areas .  According to official statistics , more than 500 members from various anti-government armed groups " exchanged arms for peace " with the government last year .  Up to now , 17 anti-government ethnic armed groups as well as the MTA have made peace with the government .  Myanmar Tuesday demanded that the Thai government strictly control refugee camps on the Thai side of the two countries ' border .  The demand was made by Colonel Thein Swe , head of the Department of Office of Strategic Studies of the Myanmar Defense Ministry at a press conference here Tuesday afternoon following the peaceful end of the siege of the Myanmar Embassy in Bangkok by Myanmar armed men last Saturday .  He said there are 24 refugee camps along the Myanmar-Thai border where members and their families of different anti-Myanmar government armed groups such as the All Burma Students' Democratic Front ( ABSDF ) , Kayin National Union ( KNU ) and Democratic Alliance of Burma ( DAB ) are living and conducting military and " terrorist " training there involving foreigners .  Regarding the seizure of the Myanmar Embassy in Bangkok and the taking of hostages by Myanmar armed men , he stressed that the receiving country should take up the responsibility for the security of an embassy stationed there. three from the ABSDF , were involved in the incident last Friday .  He added that the armed men demanded that the Myanmar government release all political prisoners , recognize the results of the 1990 general election and reshuffle the government .  After a 25-hour tense standoff , the five Myanmar armed men Saturday ended their siege of the Myanmar Embassy and freed all the 38 hostages before they were flown to the Myanmar border in Ratchaburi in the company of Thai Deputy Foreign Minister Sukhumbhand Paribatra .  The report says Cambodia , Haiti , Nigeria and Paraguay were not certified for cooperating but were granted a national interest waiver while Afghanistan and Burma were denied certification outright .  The two countries were not certified because they " have been world headquarters for the heroin business " for several years , U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright told a briefing at the State Department .  " In Afghanistan , the opium harvest grew substantially , and the Taliban 's full complicity in the drug trade has extended to the point where both the harvesting and trafficking of opium is taxed , " Albright told reporters .  The annual certification report has been attacked by the countries listed in the report as the interference into their domestic affairs .  Latin American countries believe the U.S. administration should focus on efforts in reducing the consumption of drugs in the United States .  