The armed Basque separatist group ETA chalked up two more slayings in its violent campaign for an independent homeland straddling the Spanish-on May 6 and retired Civil Guard officer Alfonso Parada two days later some 80 kilometers ( 50 miles ) farther east in the town of Vitoria .  In a communique published in Tuesday 's edition of the radical Basque newspaper Elgin , ETA confirmed it was responsible for the slayings and several other recent attacks .  Caballero and Parado were shot dead , the fourth and fifth slayings attributed to ETA this year .  It is common for the separatists to wait several weeks before taking responsibility for attacks via communiques sent to Egin .  ETA , a Basque language acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed some 800 people in its 30-year campaign for independence .  ( jt/krt )  A governing party town councilor was killed Wednesday by a bomb in an attack believed to be carried out by the armed Basque separatist group ETA , national Spanish radio reported .  Manuel Zamarreno of the Popular Party in this northern Basque town died after a bomb exploded when it hit Manuel Zamarreno 's car , the radio said .  According to the report , two other people in the car were also injured in the attack that took place shortly after 11 a.m. ( 0900GMT ) .  If the reports prove correct , Samareno will be the sixth victim of ETA so far this year .  ETA , a Basque language acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people since beginning its campaign for an independent Basque state in 1968 .  ( jt )  Thousands of sympathizers of the radical Basque political coalition Herri Batasuna demonstrated Saturday demanding a negotiated solution to the violence in the northern Basque region , news reports said .  Marchers shouted slogans in favor of Basque independence and improved conditions for prisoners from the armed separatist group ETA , a reporter from the El Correo newspaper based in this industrial city said .  Herri Batasuna , considered ETA 's political wing , wins about 14 percent in elections held in the northern Basque region .  The demonstration came two days after Manuel Zamarreno , a governing party councilor from the small Basque town of Renteria , was killed by a bomb blamed on ETA .  After Zamarreno 's funeral on Friday , thousands demonstrated in silence in the nearby coastal city of San Sebastian to repudiate ETA violence .  While not directly supporting ETA attacks , Herri Batasuna leader Jon Idigoras told Saturday 's marchers that `` the repression '' of radical Basque nationalism by the government , `` only lengthens the conflict unnecessarily and causes unnecessary victims , '' the national news agency EFE reported .  ETA , an acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed close to 800 people during its 30-year campaign for an independent Basque state straddling the Spanish-French border .  Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar has ruled out negotiations with Herri Batasuana unless it distances itself from ETA , or ETA lays down its arms .  The coalition was forced to elect a new leadership in February after its entire 23-member executive board was jailed for using an ETA video calling for peace talks during an election broadcast .  ( jt )  Spain 's Socialist party has pulled out of the three-party Basque regional government because of links between the coalition 's principal member and an outside group allied to the armed separatist organization ETA .  The Socialists , the leading opposition party in Spain 's national parliament , announced the split accusing the Basque Nationalist Party of getting too close to Herri Batasuna , the political wing of ETA .  Most parties in Spain have agreed to isolate Herri Batasuna until it condemns ETA 's violence .  ETA , whose name stands for Basque Homeland Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people since 1968 in its campaign for Basque independence .  On Thursday , Basque regional government chief and Basque Nationalist Party member Antonio Ardanza appointed three new councilors to replace the Socialist representatives who resigned a day earlier .  The split came just under four months before fresh regional elections are held on Oct. 25 .  The Basque Nationalist Party won 22 of the 75-seats in the 1994 ballot , has shared power with the Socialists who won 12 and the Basque Union , which won eight .  In recent months the Basque Nationalist Party have promoted attempts to bring Herri Batasuna into the fold so as to encourage a political solution to the region 's conflict .  The Basque region , located close to Spain 's border with France , is one of 17 semiautonomous regions in Spain .  ( cg/jt )  A gang of hooded youths who support Basque separatism pelted police with Molotov cocktails and other projectiles at a street fair in Bilbao , leaving 17 people injured , authorities said Saturday .  Two of the injured were in serious condition .  The 30-a 19-year-old boy and a 16-year-old girl .  The latter was one of the two people seriously injured , suffering burns when an incendiary device went off in her hands .  The girl was placed under arrest after she was hospitalized .  The other serious injury was a middle-aged man who was attacked for yelling at the youths who assaulted police .  Overall , 17 people were injured , including five policemen , Europa Press reported .  Similar violence rocked another Basque town , Getxo , last Saturday as youths with Molotov cocktails burned down a three-story apartment building .  Its residents were evacuated in time and no injuries were reported .  After that incident , Herri Batasuna , the political party linked to the armed separatist group ETA , said for the first time that the party opposed street violence as a way to further the Basque separatist cause. dw  The armed Basque separatist movement ETA accused the Spanish government Wednesday of trying to snuff out the Basque language .  The charge came in a statement published in a radical newspaper , Euskadi Informacion .  In the Basque language , known as Euskera , Euskadi is the word for the Basque country , a region straddling the border between Spain and France .  ETA took issue with `` enemies of Euskera who do not have the right to live in Euskadi . ''  It said the governments and Spain and France were trying to `` close off the language and force it into a ghetto to be eliminated little by little . ''  `` France and Spain are maintaining their imperialism , '' the statement said .  Euskadi Informacion is a makeshift publication that surfaced after the daily Egin was shut down in July over its alleged links to ETA .  An estimated 600,000 people speak Euskera in the seven Basque provinces in Spain and France , according to the University of the Basque Country , in San Sebastian .  It was among regional languages that were officially banned under the dictatorship of Gen. Francisco Franco from 1939 to 1975 .  ETA , an acronym that stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed almost 800 people in a 30-year fight for independence in the Basque country of northern Spain .  ( lre/dw )  It 's election time in Spain 's troubled Basque region , bringing with it a flurry of attempts to end three decades of violence in which nearly 800 people have been killed by ETA rebels fighting for an independent Basque homeland .  Basque nationalists this week urged ETA , one of Europe 's few remaining armed political groups , to renounce bloodshed so that a political solution can be found .  Pressure on ETA to declare a unilateral cease-fire has increased since Saturday , when Basque nationalists and other political groups , including radical ETA-linked political party Herri Batasuna , took a joint position on the issue .  Their so-called Lizarra Declaration calls for peace talks and a permanent end to the violence .  But when asked Wednesday about the possibility of an ETA cease-fire , Interior Ministry spokesman Juan Delgado said , `` It would be a trick truce . ''  ETA , the initials in the Basque language for Basque Homeland and Freedom , and Basque political parties seek an independent nation carved out of pieces of northern Spain and southern France .  The group has killed 800 people since it took up arms 30 years ago , and was extremely active during the Socialist administration of ex-Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez in the early 1980s , killing dozens of police officers every year .  Most Basque politicians , while supporting ETA 's goal , have urged the rebels to stop the killing .  Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar 's government insists it will not negotiate with ETA or its political allies until ETA renounces violence .  The Lizarra Declaration came out of a forum promoted by Herri Batasuna and held in the Basque city of Lizarra .  It was signed by representatives of 23 political parties , labor unions and grassroots groups. but the forum was boycotted by Spain 's two most powerful political parties , the ruling Popular Party and the opposition Socialists .  ETA declared a truce for one week in 1996 .  It ended with a series of bomb attacks on tourist resorts when the government refused to negotiate unless ETA renounced violence .  Armed Basque separatist group ETA announces cease-The armed Basque separatist group ETA has announced an open-ended cease-fire , a newspaper reported late Wednesday .  The radical Basque daily Euskadi Informacion said it had received a statement from ETA in which the separatist group announced a truce in its 30-year-old battle for an independent Basque homeland in the north of Spain , the state-run news agency EFE reported .  ( dw )  The recent cease-fire by Basque gunmen provides a prime opportunity to resolve Spain 's Basque conflict and the international community , particularly the United States , has a duty to help bring this about , Irish republican leader Gerry Adams said Monday .  `` Powerful nations have a duty to assist , and clearly the United States is the most powerful , '' Adams , who heads the IRA-linked Sinn Fein party , told a press conference shortly after arriving in this northern Basque town .  `` We would be calling on the international community to assist in every situation , but especially one like the Basque country where an initiative has been taken , '' said Adams .  Adams was greeted at the start of Gerry Adams 's half-day stay by some 100 Basque independence supporters waving Irish and Basque flags .  The Irish leader was expected to be handed a proposal for all-party peace talks signed by Basque nationalist parties grouped together in the so-called `` Irish Forum . ''  The forum is hopeful Adams will pass its proposal on to President Bill Clinton when the two meet this month .  Adams described Clinton 's input into Northern Irish peace process as `` crucial and pivotal.has already been sent to South African President Nelson Mandela and the United Nations .  On Sept 18 , ETA began an indefinite and condition-free cease-fire in its campaign for an independent Basque state that it hopes would unite territory in northern Spain and southwestern France .  The organization , whose name is an acronym in the Basque language for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people since 1968 .  The Spanish government has long ruled out ETA 's demand for a self-determination vote for Basques .  The Irish Forum claimed inspiration from the Northern Ireland peace process and its success in opening the door for a political settlement in the troubled British province. called on the Spanish government to put aside its `` distrust '' of ETA and `` grasp this opportunity '' for peace .  Conservative Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar has insisted that ETA must provide greater proof of its peaceful intentions before a peace process be set in motion .  During Gerry Adams 's stay in the Basque country , Adams was also to visit a Herri Batasuna member Karmelo Landa in Gerry Adams 's prison cell on the outskirts of Bilbao .  Landa was jailed last December along with 22 other party leaders convicted of collaborating with ETA for using television electoral broadcast time to show a video in which the gunmen called for peace talks .  ETA commanded considerable support in the Basque region and elsewhere in Spain during the final years of the 1939-75 dictatorship of Gen. Francisco Franco .  Today , however , most people believe an armed campaign for independence can not be justified given the level of self-government the Basque region enjoys since democracy returned in 1978 .  Adams was to return to Belfast later Monday .  ( jt/cg )  The Spanish government has ruled out any discussion of Basque independence in expected peace talks with the armed separatist group ETA , a government spokesman said Tuesday .  Spokesman Josep Pique said the government would only negotiate terms for ETA to surrender its weapons and the fate of more than 500 ETA prisoners in jails around Spain .  `` In the peace process , this is all there is to talk about , '' Pique told reporters in the northeastern city of Barcelona .  `` No one should think there is going to be any kind of political negotiation on the basis of what might arise when the violence ends , '' Josep Pique added .  Pique was speaking a day after a senior official from the opposition Socialist party warned that ETA , which began observing an open-ended ceasefire on Sept. 18 , was attempting to force full-blown talks on the future of the Basque country as its price for renouncing violence for good .  Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar , flush with a strong showing by Josep Pique 's center-right Popular Party in Basque regional elections on Oct. 25 , said last Tuesday Josep Pique 's government is willing to hold preliminary talks with ETA .  The purpose of these discussions , the government said , would be for ETA to confirm that it really wants peace .  Two days later ETA issued a statement that fell short of promising a permanent end to violence .  The document was dated before Aznar 's offer .  In it ETA supported a Basque nationalist peace proposal that calls for a two-track process made up of negotiations between the government and ETA , on issues like weapons and prisoners , and separate all-party talks on the future of the Basque country .  These latter discussions would touch on ETA 's stated goal of independence , according to this blueprint signed by a broad range of nationalist Basque parties and known as the Lizarra Declaration after a town in Spain 's northern Basque region .  Pique 's remarks ruling out talks on independence come as both sides jockey to shape a peace-talks agenda that suits them best , with the government seeking to keep it as narrow as possible , while ETA is trying to push it open .  ETA , which stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people in its 30-year campaign for an independent Basque nation carved out of parts of northern Spain and southern France .  ( dw/jt )  The Spanish government has ruled out any discussion of Basque independence in possible peace talks with the armed separatist group ETA , an official said Tuesday .  The government will only negotiate terms for ETA to surrender its weapons and the fate of more than 500 ETA prisoners , government spokesman Josep Pique said .  `` In the peace process , this is all there is to talk about , '' Pique told reporters in Barcelona .  ETA , which stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people in its 30-year campaign for an independent Basque nation carved out of parts of northern Spain and southern France .  The group began observing an open-ended cease-fire on Sept. 18.  Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar said last week Jose Maria Aznar 's government is willing to hold preliminary talks with ETA .  The purpose of these discussions would be for the group to confirm it really wants peace , the government said .  Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar is considering paying damages to relatives of people killed by government-backed death squads that targeted Basque separatists in the 1980s when Jose Maria Aznar 's Socialist predecessors were in power , a spokesman said Wednesday .  `` This is a subject that is being analyzed now .  That is all there is to say , '' spokesman Josep Pique told reporters .  The death squads , which called themselves the Anti-terrorist Liberation Groups , or GAL , killed 27 people from 1983 to 1987 in a campaign designed to crush the armed Basque separatist group ETA .  Many of the victims were mistaken targets .  Jose Barrionuevo , interior minister under then-Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez , and his deputy for state security , Rafael Vera , are serving 10-year jail terms for their role in organizing a botched 1983 kidnapping that marked the GAL 's first act .  Pique also rejected a call Tuesday by ETA 's political wing , Herri Batasuna , for a blanket amnesty for more than 500 jailed ETA members as a way to end decades of separatist conflict .  Jose Maria Aznar reiterated the government position that if ETA , which declared a ceasefire Sept. 16 , renounces violence for good , officials are willing to consider transferring some ETA prisoners to jails in or near the Basque country in line with a long-standing ETA demand .  Pique also said the government is `` still waiting '' for a response from ETA to Aznar 's offer of exploratory talks to discuss whether the group is willing to renounce violence .  The government insists that if full-blown peace talks do get underway , it is prepared to discuss only the prisoner issue and ETA disarmament , not ETA 's stated goal of an independent Basque homeland .  ETA is a Basque-language acronym that stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom .  Its bombings and shootings in the Basque country and elsewhere in Spain have left nearly 800 people dead since 1968 .  ( dw )  The Spanish government of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar and the Basque militant group ETA have made direct contact for the first time , taking a step toward new peace talks , a newspaper reported Thursday .  The communication was limited to a recognition that the government and ETA would have future contacts , the daily El Mundo reported , quoting unnamed government sources .  Aznar last week authorized contacts with ETA , and promised to inform the public of all developments related to the Basque peace process But Francisco Martos , a spokesman for Aznar 's office refused to comment , saying that the delicacy of the issue requires discretion .  The latest possibility of a negotiated end to ETA 's 30-year violent campaign for an independent Basque homeland straddling the Spanish-French border dates to Sept. 18 when ETA announced an indefinite cease-fire .  Spain 's government gradually softened its position on the truce , with initial skepticism turning into a promise of dialogue .  The government insists , however , that the agenda will not include the subject of Basque independence .  The government says it is willing to talk about the fate of ETA 's 535 prisoners in return for a clear commitment to give up violence forever. has killed nearly 800 people since taking up arms in 1968 .  The government last held talks with ETA in 1989 in Algeria when the Socialist government of Felipe Gonzalez was in office .  The talks broke down and the violence resumed .  A former leader of the Basque separatist group ETA urged the government Thursday to transfer ETA prisoners to jails inside the Basque country as a first step towards peace talks .  `` When all ETA prisoners are transferred to the Basque region , this will make it easier for us , not just as prisoners but as Basque citizens , to participate in the new process underway , '' Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea , himself a prisoner , told reporters .  Better known by Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea 's nom-de-guerre Josu Tenera , Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea is serving time in a Madrid prison for belonging to an armed group .  Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea was let out of a Madrid jail briefly Thursday to register for the seat Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea won in the Basque regional parliament in elections held Oct. 25 .  Urrutikoetxea said Jose Antonio Urrutikoetxea was speaking on behalf of 535 ETA members held in prisoners all over Spain , sometimes as far away as the Canary Islands , as a way to keep them from plotting behind bars .  One of ETA 's long-standing demands is for the prisoners to be moved to facilities in or at least near the Basque country .  ETA declared an open-ended ceasefire on Sept. 16 .  The government has responded saying that if ETA renounces violence for good , it is prepared to discuss measures like prisoner transfers or furloughs .  But ETA and moderate Basque nationalist groups insist the government should act first on the prisoners issue to open the way for talks .  In what was seen as a goodwill gesture , the Interior Ministry last month transferred four ill prisoners for treatment in hospitals of their choice .  ( mr/dw )  Former Italian President Francesco Cossiga arrived here Monday for a four-day visit which Francesco Cossiga said was aimed at getting a firsthand view of the peace process in Spain 's Basque region , news reports said .  Skirting questions as to the possibility of him mediating in resolving the Basque problem , Cossiga told reporters Francesco Cossiga was `` here as a friend '' and had been invited to the northern Spanish region by the governing Basque Nationalist Party .  His visit comes as Spain and the three-province Basque region enjoys its third month of peace following the Sept. 18 cease-fire by the armed separatist group ETA .  On Monday , Spanish Foreign Minister Abel Matutes said Cossiga `` could come and go '' in Spain as often as Francesco Cossiga likes but stressed that no intermediaries were needed to resolve the Basque conflict , the private Europa Press news agency said .  The Italian centrist leader praised center-right Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar 's decision to begin making contacts to sound out ETA 's long-term intentions before full negotiations take place .  Cossiga added that peace in the Basque region would help consolidate the European Union .  During the visit , Cossiga is to hold talks with Basque Nationalist Party leaders and visit the several political and cultural sites .  Francesco Cossiga did not rule out a meeting with representatives of Herri Batasuna , the political wing of ETA .  ETA , whose name is a Basque-language acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people in a 30-year campaign for independence .  ( cg )  Spain said Friday it will move 21 Basque separatist inmates from far-flung prisons to jails closer to their home region , a move seen as a gesture to the armed Basque group ETA .  The announcement by the Interior Ministry came exactly three months after ETA began observing an open-ended ceasefire in its 30-year battle for an independent homeland .  Since then , the government has been under pressure from both hardline and moderate Basque nationalists , and even the mainstream Socialist opposition party , to make a significant gesture to ETA on its long-standing demand that separatist prisoners be transferred to the Basque country , or at least closer to it .  In late October the government moved four ailing ETA prisoners to the Basque country itself .  Officials insisted this was for humanitarian reasons only .  The government keeps more than 500 ETA prisoners scattered around the country to avoid their plotting behind bars .  The interior ministry said 21 will be moved to jails in the south of the mainland from prisons in the Canary Islands off the coast of West Africa , the Balearic islands in the Mediterranean , or from Ceuta and Melilla , Spanish enclaves on the northern coast of Morocco .  The ministry said the transfers would begin immediately .  It named the prisoners but did not list their crimes .  In November , Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar said Jose Maria Aznar had authorized exploratory talks with parties close to ETA to determine whether the group was prepared to renounce violence for good .  Aznar insists that the peace process can not advance in earnest without a permanent end to the violence .  And even so , Jose Maria Aznar says the government is only willing to discuss prisoner transfers and other issues involving ETA inmates , ruling out talks on ETA 's stated demand of independence .  The group , whose name means Basque Homeland and Freedom , has killed nearly 800 people in its campaign for a separate homeland in the Basque country , an area which straddles parts of northern Spain and southern France .  ( dw/krt )  The armed Basque separatist group ETA reiterated its willingness Monday to open peace negotiations with the government , but fell short of announcing a permanent cease-fire as has been demanded by Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar .  ETA also said that there have been no direct contacts yet with Aznar 's government .  The group apparently was responding to a government spokesman 's statement Friday that officials had made `` significant contacts '' in peace efforts with ETA .  The organization , blamed for nearly 800 killings in its 30-year-old battle for an independent Basque homeland in northern Spain , began an open-ended , unconditional cease-fire Sept. 18.  Aznar has said the group must do more to show that it is committed to a permanent peace before substantial negotiations can begin .  In its three-page announcement Monday , written in the Basque language , ETA said it will maintain its truce but it made no mention of making its cease-fire permanent or of laying down its arms .  The government , in a goodwill gesture , announced Friday that 21 ETA inmates from far-flung prisons will be moved to jails closer to their homes .  Those transfers will take place Tuesday .  ETA , a Basque-language acronym which stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has long demanded that the more than 500 ETA prisoners held in Spanish jails be transferred closer to home .  The government keeps them scattered around Spain to prevent them from plotting while behind bars .  Pumping their fists in the air to shouts of '' Long live ETA ! '' several thousand people paid tribute Saturday to four young Basque separatists who blew themselves up by accident , reportedly while preparing an attack .  A police helicopter hovered in overcast skies as Arnaldo Otegi , leader of the pro-ETA Basque coalition Euskal Herritarrok , pointed to poster-and praised them as freedom fighters .  Police had feared incidents between the crowd and opponents of ETA , the armed Basque separatist group , but the rally went off peacefully .  Speaking before crowd waving red , white and green Basque flags , Otegi said it was a pity that men so young had to die in the Basque conflict .  Otegi blamed the Spanish government , saying it had to yield to what Otegi called Basques ' desire for self-rule. '' We did not choose violence , but there is no other path , '' Otegi said at the rally in the heart of Bilbao , the largest and richest Basque city .  ETA 's armed drive for an independent homeland carved out of parts of northern Spain and southern France has claimed nearly 800 lives since it began in 1968 .  In the Basque language , ETA stands for Basque Freedom and Homeland .  Police believe the four ETA members who died had intended to launch an attack on Bilbao .  On Wednesday , prosecutors filed a suit against Otegi , accusing him of advocating terrorism after he described the four who died as '' colleagues and patriots . ''  Earlier Saturday , suspected supporters of the armed group threw a firebomb at a Civil Guard member 's home in the latest in a series of small-scale attacks in the northern Basque region .  Nobody was hurt in the incident in Vitoria , the region 's capital .  The house , belonging to a Civil Guard member who was not identified , was damaged by fire as the guardsman 's 17-year-old son was inside the building .  During the past three days , assailants have thrown Molotov cocktails at bank offices , burnt some 13 buses and dozens of cars and attacked automatic teller machines in different Basque cities .  They have been protesting the deaths of the four suspected ETA members .  On Friday , ETA claimed responsibility for 12 attacks between early May and late July .  But the armed group did not mention a shooting of an army officer Wednesday or two car bombings that killed a Basque business leader and injured 11 people Tuesday .  Police and politicians have blamed ETA .  A politician was gunned down Tuesday in the street of a northern town in the latest in a series of slayings blamed on the armed Basque separatist group ETA .  Manuel Indiano , 29 , was shot 10 times in the chest and abdomen outside his candy store in Zumarraga , a Basque town , about 250 miles north of Madrid , police said .  Indiano , who authorities said refused police protection normally offered politicians in the Basque region , died in the town 's hospital an hour after the attack .  His wife , pregnant with their first child , was admitted to a hospital later in shock .  Although not a member of the governing Popular Party , Indiano became a councilor in Zumarraga for the party six months ago .  The conservative party fiercely opposes Basque separatism and other moves to change Spain 's political makeup .  No one took responsibility for the shooting , but Interior Ministry officials immediately blamed ETA , which began its campaign for independence of the three-province northern region in 1968. attributed to ETA since it ended a 14-month truce last December .  The group , whose name stands for Basque Homeland and Freedom , has been blamed for killing nearly 800 people .  It normally claims responsibility for its attacks several weeks after carrying them out .  Officials believe the latest ETA campaign seeks to push the government to the negotiating table .  A single round of talks during last year 's truce ended in stalemate .  The killing was condemned by political parties , labor unions and Amnesty International. '' We are faced once again with the confirmation that the terrorist group ETA has no other aim but to impose its will on others and exterminate all those who do n't think like they do , '' said deputy Prime Minister Marian Rajoy .  Indiano 's body was to be brought to Madrid , where his parents live , for burial Wednesday , news reports said .  Hundreds of people gathered Tuesday evening in Bilbao , San Sebastian and Vitoria , the capitals of the three Basque provinces , to observe a few minutes of silence .  The quiet was broken by periodic shouts against ETA .  In Zumarraga itself , at a special town meeting called to condemn the killing , one of three councilors who belong to the pro-ETA party Euskal Herritarrok tried to read a communique but was drowned out by shouts of '' murderers . ''  While security force members have long been ETA 's main target , in recent years the organization has begun killing more politicians , particularly those of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar 's Popular Party .  Aznar , who was on a visit to Poland on Tuesday , survived a car-bomb attempt on Zumarraga 's life in 1995 when Zumarraga was in the opposition .  A bomb damaged a discotheque in Spain 's northern Basque region Sunday in an attack claimed by Basque separatists .  Nobody was hurt in the explosion shortly before 11 a.m. , but police said the bomb caused extensive damage to the Txitxarro discotheque in the town of Deba , some 15 miles west of coastal city of San Sebastian .  Basque police said a man identifying himself as a member of the Basque armed group ETA warned of an imminent explosion at the disco .  The anonymous caller also said that two people who were cleaning inside the discotheque had been left handcuffed to a tree in the road of Itziar toward San Sebastian .  A short time later , a hunter found a man and a woman tied to a tree and reported it to police .  The two confirmed that there were no other people inside the discotheque at the time of the explosion , which mainly damaged the building 's roof .  The mayor of Deba , Jesus Maria Aguirrezabala , said that the target of the blast was the owner of the disco , Narciso Korta , who is a brother of a businessmen killed in a car bomb in August .  ETA has claimed responsibility for that bombing .  ETA regularly targets the Basque business community as part of its independence campaign .  A series of attacks by ETA in the last two months are seen as an acceleration of the campaign of the armed group .  It has been blamed for about a dozen killings this year since it ended a 14-month truce last December .  Nearly 800 people have been killed since ETA started its campaign for independence 30 years ago .  ETA , a Basque-language acronym for Basque Homeland and Freedom , demands the right to self determination for Spain 's three Basque provinces in the north .  It envisions an independent state that would also incorporate Basque regions in southwestern France .  Historically , the Basques have maintained a separate cultural identity and language .  For some , ETA 's fight is a legitimate battle for sovereignty .  But the majority of Spaniards oppose their goals , pointing out that under Spain 's democratic constitution , the Basques enjoy more autonomy than any other region in Europe .  c.1999 San Francisco Chronicle  Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar said that the week-long unilateral cease-fire started today by the militant Basque separatist group Eta is a propaganda stunt .  The cease-fire , said the prime minister , was designed to disrupt a upcoming meeting of Basque parties opposed to Eta , which over the past 27 years has killed more than 750 people .  Meanwhile , Interior Minister Javier Mayor Oreja called on the Eta , which has fought for a separate Basque state made up of four northern Spanish provinces and three southwestern French departments , to release prison officer Jose Ortega Lara it has held for five months .  He urged the parties attending the Tuesday meeting to concentrate on uniting against the Eta and not squabble over the response to the cease-fire .  Jose Maria Aznar , the Popular Party spokesman in the Basque country , said talks with the Eta should not be considered .  The opposition Spanish Socialist Workers Party said the week-long cease-fire was insufficient and that the Eta would have to offer more before negotiations could be considered .  The Basque regional government , which is led by the moderate Basque Nationalist Party , said the cease-fire provided a reason for hope but called on the Eta to give up its arms altogether .  The Eta has said it will hold Ortega Lara until the government changes its policy of placing Eta prisoners in jails outside the Basque Country .  Some 30 of the 600 Eta members in Spanish prisons are due to be moved to the Basque country in coming weeks .  A group of Spanish political parties will meet here next week to mobilize against the Basque separatist group ETA , Interior Minister Jaime Mayor Oreja said today .  The July 10 meeting is aimed at " uniting all democratic forces in the struggle against terrorism , " Mayor Oreja said .  Participating in the meeting will be those who adopted in 1987 a common stance in fighting the terrorist war launched by the ETA , and have since formed a political alliance .  The national alliance has been allying with its regional counterpart in Basque , in northern Spain , to quell the ETA , namely the Basque Homeland and Freedom .  The meeting , which came on after the ETA 's week-long unilateral truce ended Monday , was expected to strengthen the links between the national and regional anti-terrorism alliances .  The Herri Batasuna party , the ETA 's political wing , will be excluded from the meeting .  The ETA has been fighting for a separate Basque state for 27 years .  About 750 people were killed in the pro-independence war .  Three bombs , claimed by the Basque separatist ETA , went off in the southern Spanish city of Malaga early today but nobody was injured .  The explosions , seemed to be designed to cause no casualties and little damage , were the latest of a series of small blasts reported this week in the area .  Local police evacuated an area near the city park after receiving a warning call from someone claiming to be an ETA member .  ETA , or Basque Homeland and Freedom , has been fighting since 1968 for an independent Basque state , leaving 800 people dead .  The chief of the Basque militant group ETA , Ignacio Gracia Arregui , was arrested Friday evening by French security force in southwest France , a media report said Saturday .  Arregui , also known as " Inaki de Renteria " , was arrested when Arregui was with Arregui 's wife in an apartment in the village of Bidart in the French Basque country .  The arrest came as ETA was launching an intensive campaign of attacks against the Spanish authorities .  ETA has killed 12 people in terrorist attacks since the end of its truce with Madrid last December .  Born in 1955 in Renteria , Spanish Basque country , Arregui is the highest leader of ETA and leader of its military wing since 1992 , according to the Spanish Interior Ministry .  He was believed to be the mastermind of the abortive assassination plot in 1995 against King Juan Carlos in the island of Palma de Majorque .  